Hello everyone, I'm Balendu Sharma and I would like to
take you through an accessibility tool which has been part
of Windows for many decades but which has undergone important
changes in the recent past. The tool is magnifier.
As the name suggests, what magnifier does the best is
magnification.
It makes part or all of your screen look bigger
so you can see words and images better.
You got it right. Such a functionality would be very
useful for people with a certain kind of visual disability,
namely low vision.
However, with new functionalities added to it, magnifier is now
even useful for people with total visual disability, color blindness
and even dyslexia.
And Edge is the case of most accessible tools and
technologies. This can help each one of us in some
situations, like when we are in a video call and
text in a document shared on the screen is barely
legible due to a very small font size used in
the document.
Let's try to know magnifier better.
In Windows 11, Magnifier is available in accessibility, which is
part of Windows settings.
If you go to accessibility pane you will see magnifier
listed here and if you click here.
This magnifier window will open wherein there is a toggle
button.
Through which you can launch or close magnifier. If I
click on this one, magnifier will appear. So this is
one way of launching magnifier and you can see that
wherever my mouse goes.
This lens shows.
Any objects or text around that in a larger size.
If I want to switch it off, I can just.
Click here and then magnifier goes away. So that is
one way of opening magnifier. Another way is to click
on the search button. Type magnifier word here.
And in the search results you can see magnifier icon.
Click on this one and now magnifier will appear. Here
you can see that wherever my mouse goes you can
see the objects around that and a larger size inside
this lens.
So this is second way of opening or launching magnifier.
There is another and in fact simplest way of opening
this which is to use keyboard shortcuts called Windows and
plus on your keyboard. So when I press windows and
magnifier appears and now you can see that this is
showing me things in a magnified manner. If I want
to switch it off I can also use another keyboard
shortcut which is Windows and escape.
Now magnifier has different views which means that it can
take up different shapes or forms, which are a full
screen view, a lens view and a docked view. Let
me show you how they work. But before that I
have to launch magnifier by pressing Windows and plus keys.
So the magnifier appears here in the lens view because
that was the last view that I used while using
magnifier.
So this is lens view but if I want to
change two full screen view I need to use keyboard
shortcuts which are control plus alt plus F.
When I do that.
You can see that now I'm in full screen mode
for magnifier and now wherever I take my mouse cursor,
things will appear larger.
If these are in the size of these objects, still
not large enough.
To suit my requirements I can press windows in plus
to magnify this further.
Like this if I want to go back to the
smaller size I can press windows and minus keys.
To reduce the zoom level.
So this is the second view which is called full
screen view. But there is another view which is called
docked view. How do you activate that by pressing control
plus alt plus D?
So now you can see that when I do that,
this small box appears on my desktop. And now this
works exactly in the same manner like the lens view.
Wherever I take my mouse cursor they will appear in
a larger size. Inside this box I can also dock
it on top of my window or I can dock
it to the left or right of my desktop as
well. I can also inverse the colors, for example somebody
is not able to properly focus on the screen properly.
Be able to read the text. Because of certain color
related issues, they can use the feature to invert the
colors inside magnifier.
They just need to use a shortcut key called control
plus Alt Plus I for the purpose control ALT Plus
I.
Which inverts the colors.
I can go back to the original view by pressing
control plus, Alt Plus I once again.
There is another functionality in Magnifier now, which is its
ability to read out text.
To activate its read text capabilities, you need to just
press a shortcut key, which is control plus ALT plus
enter.
Magnifier.
Now you can see that it is reading that out.
So this was Windows magnifier. If you want to leverage
this tool, don't forget to press windows and plus keys.
Thank you.